.TH "cueconvert" "1"
.SH NAME
cueconvert \- convert files between CUE and TOC formats
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cueconvert
[
.B \-i
.I format
|
.BR \-\-input\-format =\fIformat\fP
] [
.B \-o
.I format
|
.BR \-\-output\-format =\fIformat\fP
] [
.I infile
[
.I outfile
] ]
.br
.B cueconvert \-h | \-\-help
.br
.B cueconvert \-V | \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cueconvert
coverts files between the CUE and TOC formats, each of which are commonly
used by compact disc ripping software to denote track breakpoints and other
data.
.PP
The operands are optional; if
.I infile
is not specified,
.B cueconvert
reads from standard input, and if
.I outfile
is not specified, it writes to standard output.
.PP
If no filenames are specified, standard input is used, and an input format
option
.I must
be specified.
The complementary format is used for output.
.PP
If filenames are provided, but format options are not specified,
the input and output formats will be guessed based on each filename's
suffix (e.g.,
.I .cue
or
.IR .toc ).
This heuristic is case-insensitive.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
displays a usage message and exits.
.TP
.BR \-i " \fIformat\fP, " \-\-input\-format=\fIformat\fP
sets the expected format of the input file to
.IR format .
.TP
.BR \-o " \fIformat\fP, " \-\-output\-format=\fIformat\fP
sets the format of the generated output file to
.IR format .
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
displays version information and exits.
.PP
The option argument
.I format
must be either
.B cue
or
.BR toc .
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B cueconvert
exits with status zero if it successfully coverts the input file, and
nonzero if there were problems.
.SH AUTHOR
Cuetools was written by Svend Sorensen.
Branden Robinson contributed fixes and enhancements to the utilities and
documentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cuebreakpoints(1),
.BR cueprint(1)
