.TH "cueprint" "1"
.SH NAME
cueprint \- report disc and track information from a CUE or TOC file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cueprint
[ {
.B \-i
.I format
|
.BR \-\-input\-format =\fIformat\fP
} {
.B \-n
.I number
|
.BR \-\-track\-number =\fInumber\fP
} {
.B \-d
.I template
|
.BR \-\-disc\-template =\fItemplate\fP
} {
.B \-t
.I template
|
.BR \-\-track\-template =\fItemplate\fP
} ]
[
.I file
\&... ]
.br
.B cueprint \-h | \-\-help
.br
.B cueprint \-V | \-\-version
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B cueprint
reports disc and track information from CUE and TOC files, which are
typically created by compact disc ripping software.
.PP
By default,
.B cueprint
reports a default set of disc information, and a default set of information
for each track on the disc.
With options, the report can be restricted to a specific track, and the
presentation of the disc and track information can be extensively
customized using
.BR printf (3)-style
format strings (referred to here as \(oqtemplates\(cq to avoid confusion
with the concept of file format).
All characters in a template are reproduced as-is in the output except for
conversions (which begin with
.RB \(oq % \(cq)
and escapes (which begin with
.RB \(oq \e \(cq).
.PP
If no filenames are specified,
.B cueprint
reads from standard input, and an input format option
.I must
be specified.
If one or more filenames is provided, but the input format option is not
specified, the input format will be guessed based on each file's suffix
(e.g.,
.I .cue
or
.IR .toc ).
This heuristic is case-insensitive.
.SS Conversions
A conversion has the form
.RB \(oq % [ \fIflags\fP ][ \fIwidth\fP ][ .\fIprecision\fP ] \fItype\fP \(cq.
.PP
.I flags
may be zero or more of the following:
.TS
nokeep;
l	l.
Character	Meaning
_
\-	left-justify expansion
+	place sign before numbers
\(oq \(cq (space)	place a blank space before a positive number
0	pad numbers with zeroes
.TE
.\"#	(unused)
.PP
.I width
is the minimum field width.
.I precision
is the maximum width for strings.
.I type
is a single character which specifies the conversion type \(em apart from
.BR % ,
it is the only mandatory part of the conversion.
.PP
The available conversion types are presented in the table below; disc
conversion types are presented in the left half of the table, and track
conversion types in the right half.
Disc template expansion characters are valid for both disc and track
templates.
.TS
nokeep;
l	l	l	l.
Character	Conversion	Character	Conversion
_
A	album arranger	a	track arranger
C	album composer	c	track composer
G	album genre	g	track genre
		i	track ISRC
M	album message	m	track message
N	number of tracks	n	track number
P	album performer	p	track performer
S	album songwriter
T	album title	t	track title
U	album UPC/EAN	u	track ISRC (CD-TEXT)
.TE
.PP
Any other character used as a conversion type expands to itself.
This is how a literal percent sign is placed in the template; i.e.,
.RB \(oq %% \(cq
expands to
.RB \(oq % \(cq.
.SS Escapes
The recognized escapes are all single characters, and listed in the table
below.
.TS
nokeep;
l	l.
Escape Sequence	Expansion
_
\ea	alert (bell)
\eb	backspace
\ef	formfeed
\en	newline
\er	carriage return
\et	horizontal tab
\ev	vertical tab
\e0	null
.TE
.PP
Any other character used after the
.RB \(oq \e \(cq
in an escape sequence expands to itself.
This is how a literal escape character is placed in the template; i.e.,
.RB \(oq \e\e \(cq
expands to
.RB \(oq \e \(cq.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d " \fItemplate\fP, " \-\-disc\-template=\fItemplate\fP
set disc template (see
.B Conversions
)
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
displays a usage message and exits.
.TP
.BR \-i " \fIformat\fP, " \-\-input\-format=\fIformat\fP
sets the expected format of the input file(s) to
.IR format ,
which must be either
.B cue
or
.BR toc .
.TP
.BR \-n " \fInumber\fP, " \-\-track\-number=\fInumber\fP
only print track information for a single track.
The default is to print information for all tracks.
.TP
.BR \-t " \fItemplate\fP, " \-\-track\-template=\fItemplate\fP
set track template (see
.B Conversions
)
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
displays version information and exits.
.SH "EXIT STATUS"
.B cueprint
exits with status zero if it successfully reports information from each
input file, and nonzero if there were problems.
.SH EXAMPLES
To display disc and track information (using the default template for
both):
.PP
.RB "% " "cueprint album.cue"
.PP
To print the number of tracks in a CUE file:
.PP
.RB "% " "cueprint -d \(aq%N\en\(aq album.cue"
.SH AUTHOR
Cuetools was written by Svend Sorensen.
Branden Robinson contributed fixes and enhancements to the utilities and
documentation.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR cuebreakpoints (1),
.BR cueconvert (1),
.BR printf(3)
